    
















朱子治家格言
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　朱熹

　　黎明即起，洒掃庭除，要內外整潔。既昏便息，關鎖門戶，必親自檢點。一粥一飯
儉約，宴客切勿留連。器具質而潔，瓦缶勝金玉。飲食約而精，園蔬胜珍饈。勿營華屋
，勿謀良田。

　　三姑六婆，實淫盜之媒．婢美妾嬌，非閨房之福。奴僕勿用俊美，妻妾切忌艷妝。
勿貪意外之財，勿飲過量之酒。

　　與肩挑貿易，勿占便宜．見貧苦親鄰，須多溫恤。刻薄成家，理無久享．倫常乖舛

　　見富貴而生讒容者，最可恥．遇貧窮而作驕態者，賤莫甚。居家戒爭訟，訟則終凶

　　施惠勿念，受恩莫忘。凡事當留余地，得意不宜再往。人有喜慶，不可生妒忌心．

　　家門和順，雖饔飧不繼，亦有余歡．國課早完，即囊橐無余，自得至樂。讀書志在
聖賢，為官心存君國。守分安命，順時听天。為人若此，庶乎近焉。











    















    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  







    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    



























