    




                Most recently updated: January 4, 2021














滿江紅（寫懷）    岳飛

怒髮沖冠，凭欄處、瀟瀟雨歇。擡望眼、仰天長嘯，壯懷激烈。三十
功名塵與土，八千里路雲和月。莫等閒、白了少年頭，空悲切。靖康
恥，猶未雪；臣子恨，何時滅？駕長車踏破、賀蘭山缺。壯志饑餐胡
虜肉，笑談渴飲匈奴血。待從頭、收拾舊山河，朝天闕。

滿江紅（登黃鶴樓有感）    岳飛

遙望中原，荒煙外、許多城郭。想當年、花遮柳護，鳳樓龍閣。萬歲
山前珠翠繞，蓬壺殿裏笙歌作。到而今、鐵騎滿郊畿，風塵惡。兵安
在？膏鋒鍔。民安在？填溝壑。歎江山如故，千村寥落。何日請纓提
銳旅，一鞭直渡清河洛。卻歸來、再續漢陽遊，騎黃鶴。










    















    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  







    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    



























