    















百家姓

趙錢孫李 周吳鄭王 馮陳褚衛 蔣沈韓楊
朱秦尤許 何呂施張 孔曹嚴華 金魏陶薑
戚謝鄒喻 柏水竇章 雲蘇潘葛 奚範彭郎
魯韋昌馬 苗鳳花方 俞任袁柳 酆鮑史唐
費廉岑薛 雷賀倪湯 滕殷羅畢 郝鄔安常

樂於時傅 皮卞齊康 伍餘元蔔 顧孟平黃
和穆蕭尹 姚邵堪汪 祁毛禹狄 米貝明臧
計伏成戴 談宋茅龐 熊紀舒屈 項祝董梁
杜阮藍閔 席季麻強 賈路婁危 江童顏郭
梅盛林刁 鍾徐邱駱 高夏蔡田 樊胡淩霍

虞萬支柯 昝管盧莫 經房裘繆 幹解應宗
丁宣賁鄧 鬱單杭洪 包諸左石 崔吉鈕龔
程嵇邢滑 裴陸榮翁 荀羊於惠 甄曲家封
芮羿儲靳 汲邴糜松 井段富巫 烏焦巴弓
牧隗山穀 車侯宓蓬 全郗班仰 秋仲伊宮

寧仇欒暴 甘鈄厲戎 祖武符劉 景詹束龍
葉幸司韶 郜黎薊薄 印宿白懷 蒲台從鄂
索鹹籍賴 卓藺屠蒙 池喬陰鬱 胥能蒼雙
聞莘黨翟 譚貢勞逄 姬申扶堵 冉宰酈雍
卻璩桑桂 濮牛壽通 邊扈燕冀 郟浦尚農

溫別莊晏 柴瞿閻充 慕連茹習 宦艾魚容
向古易慎 戈廖庚終 暨居衡步 都耿滿弘
匡國文寇 廣祿闕東 毆殳沃利 蔚越夔隆
師鞏厙聶 晁勾敖融 冷訾辛闞 那簡饒空
曾毋沙乜 養鞠須豐 巢關蒯相 查後荊紅

遊竺權逯 蓋益桓公 萬俟司馬 上官歐陽
夏侯諸葛 聞人東方 赫連皇甫 尉遲公羊
澹台公冶 宗政濮陽 淳於單於 太叔申屠
公孫仲孫 軒轅令狐 鐘離宇文 長孫慕容
鮮於閭丘 司徒司空 亓官司寇 仉督子車

顓孫端木 巫馬公西 漆雕樂正 壤駟公良
拓拔夾穀 宰父穀粱 晉楚閆法 汝鄢塗欽
段幹百里 東郭南門 呼延歸海 羊舌微生
嶽帥緱亢 況後有琴 梁丘左丘 東門西門
商牟佘佴 伯賞南宮 墨哈譙笪 年愛陽佟

第五言福 百家姓終









    















    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  







    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    



























